---
layout: post
title: Adobe CC for Labs
---
At the 2017 Mac Admins Conference at Penn State last week, Karl Gibson and Johnathan Tse from Adobe spoke to a packed session room about Adobe’s plans for Creative Cloud from an administrative perspective. Reaction was swift, both in the room and in the #adobe channel in the MacAdmins Slack. Balmes Pavlov has a good write-up regarding the implications of Adobe’s plans for Mac admins who want to automate the process of having current installers for their CC apps:
- [Automation Of Adobe Creative Cloud Packages](https://babodee.wordpress.com/2017/07/16/automation-of-adobe-creative-cloud-packages/)

From my perspective, the biggest issue was regarding those of us who support and maintain shared Macs — in my case, University-based computer labs. I spoke with Johnathan Tse after the session and the impression I came away with from that discussion was that Adobe would like to move to a situation where _everyone_ has to log in with an Adobe ID in order to run any CC app (a caveat on this in a moment). From Adobe’s standpoint, the rationale is that users are not getting the full value or user experience that Adobe is offering without logging in. Karl Gibson clarified that idea further in the MacAdmins Slack shortly thereafter, saying, “it is incumbent on us to ensure that our creatives can create and that they have access to the CC Apps, mobile apps and collaboration workflows. So creatives are not getting the full value.” My take was that Volume Licensing as a purchasing method was not going away, but for anyone using device-based licensing, the medium-range plan was to require the Creative Cloud Desktop App be installed (most commonly manifested by a menu extra being present) and an Adobe ID be used in order for your software to work. It is pretty easy to come up with a doomsday scenario or two for shared computer deployments if my interpretation was correct. I started to think that Creative Cloud 2017 could become the new Creative Suite 6.

Now, the caveat: As an admin within a larger organization who is not personally involved in the licensing agreement process with Adobe, I am sheltered from Adobe’s current licensing terminology. It’s fairly confusing. Thus, I may have mixed up Adobe licensing terminology when speaking with Johnathan. The terms “volume licensing” and “device-based licensing” were used during the session and I have no idea whether these are mutually exclusive or if one is a superset of the other or what. Karl stated in the MacAdmin Slack channel that, “We did not talk today about ending the current method of licensing lab machines. We spoke about new architecture being developed to help lab deployments and allow use of services and applications requiring Named user.” I take the “new architecture” reference to refer to moving package creation from the CCP standalone app to the management console and adding new access categories to that console (whether that’s a help or not is a point of debate, but Adobe clearly thinks it’s a better experience). I take the rest to mean, “there are and will be apps and services in CC that will only be available to users authenticated with an Adobe ID” — a so-called named user.

So with that caveat, the way I am reading the tea leaves is this:
- If the CC app you want to use is available via serial number-based licensing now (no Adobe login required), there are no immediate plans to change that. That time _could_ come, but it is not right this minute. (If such a future change would be a problem for you, let Adobe know about your use case.)
- Adobe has services and apps that it does or will offer that will not be available via serial number-based licensing.
- Adobe wants as many users as possible to move to authenticating with Adobe IDs and the Creative Cloud Desktop App. In Education, that means staff and faculty who have 1-to-1 deployment of Macs will be encouraged to be assigned licenses rather than use serial number-based licenses. Expect Adobe to discuss that with you when your next license renewal comes up.

That’s my best guess. My real problem with this whole scenario is that it is just a guess, even after speaking directly with Adobe staff. Here’s hoping we get some clarification sooner than later.

Should I receive updates, clarifications, or corrections, I will post those here. If you have such updates, you can reach me in the MacAdmins Slack (@jazzace) or on Twitter (@AnthonyReimer).